Fire Emblem: Three Houses
is a tactical roleplaying video game developed by Intelligent Systems
and Koei Tecmo's Kou Shibusawa and published by
Nintendo for the Nintendo Switch. It was released
worldwide on July 26, 2019. It is the sixteenth entry in
the Fire Emblem series and the first for home consoles
since Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn, originally released
in 2007.
Three Houses is set on the continent of Fódlan, divided
between three ruling powers currently at peace. These
nations are connected through the Garreg Mach
Monastery, which houses a church and an officer's
school for students from each nation. Taking the role of
Byleth, a former mercenary with a mysterious past and
the academy's newest professor, the player must choose
a class to lead and guide their students through a series
of battles. The game maintains the turn-based tactical
gameplay of the previous Fire Emblem titles, while
incorporating social simulation and time management
elements.
The game's production was challenging for Intelligent
Systems, who attributed its success and timely release
to Koei Tecmo, who had previously partnered with the
company for Fire Emblem Warriors. The staff wanted
something entirely new for the franchise's debut on
high-definition home consoles, birthing the school life
mechanics and expansions to battle. Chinatsu Kurahana
was responsible for creating the character designs and
illustrations. The game's school system and a time skip
later in the story took inspiration from the fourth
installment, Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War.
The game received generally favorable reviews, with
critics praising the integration of the school system and
battalion mechanics, narrative, characters, soundtrack,
and replay value. Minor criticisms were directed at the
game's easier difficulty compared to past installments
as well as some visual and technical problems. The
game would go on to win Best Strategy Game and the
Player's Voice Award at The Game Awards 2019. As of
December 2022, the game has sold 4.12 million copies
worldwide, making it the single best-selling game in the
franchise. A Warriors-style spin-off, Fire Emblem
Warriors: Three Hopes, was released for the Nintendo
Switch on June 24, 2022.

Three Houses takes place on the continent of Fodlan. The landmass is divided into three rival nations
who are now at peace: the Adrestian Empire to the south and west, the Holy Kingdom of Faerghus to
the north, and the Leicester Alliance to the east. The Church of Seiros, based at Garreg Mach
Monastery at the continent's center, is the region's dominant religion and is an influential power in
Fódlan in its own right.[8]
In ancient history, a war raged between the Church's titular founder Seiros
and the "King of Liberation" Nemesis, an era which also saw the establishment of the Empire by
Seiros. In the thousand years since then, the Kingdom split away from the Empire, then the Alliance
declared its independence from both powers. A prolonged conflict ensued, with the Church being
responsible for keeping peace.[9] The nobility of Fodlan frequently bear Crests, sigils passed down
through families that grant magical powers. Bearing a crest greatly influences dynastic politics, with
nobles inheriting Crests valued far above those who lack them. Those who have Crests can also wield
powerful artifacts called Hero's Relics.[9][10] The series's titular "Fire Emblem" appears as the "Crest
of Flames", the Crest associated with the progenitor god.[10]
Players take on the role of the main character, called Byleth by default, who can be either male or
female. A mercenary by trade, they become enrolled in the Officers Academy of Garreg Mach
Monastery as a teacher. During their journey Byleth is aided by Sothis, a strange and initially
amnesiac girl who appears in their dreams and can only be heard by them.[8] At Garreg Mach
Monastery, Byleth chooses one of the three school houses, each aligned to a different nation of Fodlan

One night, Byleth and Jeralt rescue three young nobles, Edelgard, Dimitri, and Claude from bandits,
greatly impressing them. During the attack, Byleth is saved by the mysterious Sothis, who remains
within them. Jeralt and Byleth are summoned to Garreg Mach Monastery, the home of the Church of
Seiros, Fódlan's dominant religion. Jeralt reluctantly rejoins the Church's military arm, the Knights of
Seiros, while Byleth is made a professor of the monastery's Officers Academy. Jeralt privately warns
Byleth not to trust the Church's archbishop, Rhea. Byleth is then given the choice of leading one of the
academy's three houses: the Black Eagles, the Blue Lions, or the Golden Deer, each populated by
students from the Empire, Kingdom, and Alliance respectively. Byleth assumes their duties as teacher
for their chosen house, training their students and leading them in battles on behalf of the Knights of
Seiros. Byleth and their students discover frightening hints on the nature of Relics and Crests, such as
a Relic thief transforming into a monster. Various conspiracies meddle with the monastery and plot
against the Church: masked warriors called the Flame Emperor and the Death Knight, the Western
branch of the Church, and a hostile cult known as "Those Who Slither in the Dark". Byleth thwarts an
attempt to steal a powerful Hero's Relic, the Sword of the Creator. Unexpectedly, the Sword activates
when Byleth holds it, and Rhea allows them to keep it.
Jeralt is murdered by an agent of "Those Who Slither in The Dark". Reading Jeralt's diary, Byleth
discovers that Jeralt fled from the Church due to his suspicions of Rhea's involvement in Byleth's
birth. Sothis is the progenitor god, who was implanted into Byleth by Rhea when they were born in an
attempt to ressurrect her. Byleth pursues the cultists responsible for Jeralt's death. A magical attack
by one of their leaders forces Sothis to merge with Byleth, allowing them to survive and defeat the cult
members with a newly empowered Sword of the Creator. Rhea makes a futile attempt to awaken
Sothis within Byleth, but the Flame Emperor attacks the ceremony with allies from the Adrestian
Empire. The Flame Emperor is revealed to be Edelgard, who like Byleth bears the Crest of Flames; she
accuses the Church of being corrupt. If Byleth sides with Edelgard, they help her lead an assault on
Garreg Mach. If they side with Rhea, Dimitri, or Claude, then they help in the defense of the
monastery; Rhea is also revealed to be a dragon. Regardless of the side chosen, Byleth is knocked
unconscious at the end of the battle and wakes up five years later, discovering that Fódlan has plunged
into war as the Empire, Kingdom, Alliance, and Church battle each other. The routes then diverge

Following the unexpected success of Fire Emblem Awakening for the Nintendo 3DS—which helped
save the series from cancellation after flagging sales of earlier entries—the Fire Emblem series gained
renewed commercial value and prompted developer Intelligent Systems and publisher Nintendo to
bring the series back to home consoles for the first time since Fire Emblem: Radiant Dawn in
2007.Concept development for Three Houses began in 2015 following the completion of Fire
Emblem Fates for the 3DS.The team originally planned for Three Houses to be another 3DS title.
This was scrapped when production began on Fire Emblem Echoes: Shadows of Valentia, resulting in
Three Houses being briefly put on hold. When the team learned of the Nintendo Switch, they
decided to make the game for home consoles. The team wanted the game to be the biggest and best
in the series, and due to it being for home consoles they felt they could not make it alone. With this in
mind, they decided to bring in help from Koei Tecmo.
At this time, Intelligent Systems and Koei
Tecmo were collaborating on the spin-off game Fire Emblem Warriors. After consultation, Koei
Tecmo's internal team led by Kou Shibusawa and responsible for the tactical series Nobunaga's
Ambition was recommended to them. The biggest challenge for the developers was bringing the
series to a high-definition console, a first for the series. Koei Tecmo was deeply concerned in this
aspect of development. Full production began in 2017 when Shadows of Valentia was finished,
with Toshiyuki Kusakihara and Genki Yokota—respective directors for Intelligent Systems and
Nintendo EPD— returning to direct the game. 
The game's scenario was written by Koei Tecmo's Yuki Ikeno, Ryohei Hayashi and Mari Okamoto. All
three previously worked on the scenario for Warriors and were brought onto the development of
Three Houses to help assist Intelligent Systems in writing the social segments of the game. The
narrative was written in the vein of a dark fantasy, with the mature aspects of the narrative showing
through the conflict between the three factions. The first storyline conceived was the Black Eagle.

The Weapon Triangle, a recurring system for most of the series, was discarded due to it being a
"stylized" system. The new weapon-based skill system was designed to be more realistic and increase
player choice. Due to its status as the first home console entry in twelve years, the team were under
pressure to create something new and exciting. This led to the creation of Battalions in battle and the
teaching segments. Time limits were suggested by Kusakihara, who was inspired by Nintendo's
Pikmin franchise. The skill growth system drew inspiration from Zill O'll, a role-playing series
developed by Koei.The team toyed with the idea of including child characters from romantic
supports for the story's second half, a feature from Genealogy of the Holy War which they had used
extensively in Awakening and Fates. They soon decided against this, opting for a support experience
based around character maturation and platonic relationships.[10] While online features such as seen
in the "My Castle" feature from Fates were considered, the Monastery was so expansive and its history
deep enough that such customization and sharing options would be impractical to implement, so it
was left out.

Characters from Three Houses were added as playable units in the mobile game Fire Emblem Heroes
shortly after the game's release. A costume based on Three Houses was included in the Nintendo
Switch port of Tokyo Mirage Sessions ♯FE. Byleth appears as a playable character in the 2018
crossover fighting game Super Smash Bros. Ultimate, being released as downloadable content on
January 28, 2020. Both male and female versions of Byleth are present as alternate costumes for the
fighter, whose attacks are based around the use of four of the game's weapons. The Byleth DLC also
includes Garreg Mach Monastery as a new stage, as well as a selection of eleven music tracks from
Three Houses. An Amiibo figure of Byleth was released on March 26, 2021.[65] A Three Housesinspired tea drinking microgame was included in the 2021 video game WarioWare: Get It Together!
for Nintendo Switch.